.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)bind.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/bind.2,v 1.29.4.1 2011/09/23 00:51:37 kensmith Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt BIND 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm bind
.Nd 把一个本地协议地址赋给套接口
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/socket.h
.Ft int
.Fn bind "int s" "const struct sockaddr *addr" "socklen_t addrlen"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn bind
系统调用能把一个本地协议地址赋给套接口. 
当套接口由
.Xr socket 2
创建
之后, 它就位于地址族空间中了, 但此时尚未赋以协议地址. 而
.Fn bind
系统调用
可以请求把
.Fa addr
赋予套接口. 
.Sh NOTES
在UNIX域中绑定一个地址将会在文件系统中创建一个套接口文件, 当不再需要该文
件时, 调用者必须主动删除它(使用
.Xr unlink 2 ) .
.Pp
对不同的通信域, 绑定地址所遵循的规则也不同. 详细信息可参考手册中的第4节.
.Pp
为了提高可移植性, 你必须先将套接口地址这个结构体清零, 然后才能填充并将其
指针传给
.Fn bind .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std bind
.Sh ERRORS
.Fn bind
系统调用遇到以下情形将会失败: 
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
完成该调用所需的内核资源暂时不可用.
.It Bq Er EBADF
参数
.Fa s
不是一个合法的描述符. 
.It Bq Er EINVAL
套接口已经和一个地址绑定了, 而且该协议不支持绑定到新的
地址; 或者套接口已被关闭.
.It Bq Er ENOTSOCK
参数
.Fa s
不是一个套接口
.It Bq Er EADDRNOTAVAIL
所指定的地址对于本机器来说是不可用的. 
.It Bq Er EADDRINUSE
所指定的地址已经被占用了. 
.It Bq Er EACCES
所指定的地址处于被保护状态，并且当前用户没有权限访问它. 
.It Bq Er EFAULT
参数
.Fa addr
所指向的不是合法的用户空间地址. 
.El
.Pp
以下错误是在UNIX域上绑定地址时特有的.
.Bl -tag -width EADDRNOTAVA
.It Bq Er ENOTDIR
路径前缀中的某个组成部分不是一个目录.
.It Bq Er ENAMETOOLONG
路径名中的某个组成部分达到了255个字符, 或者整个路径名达到了
1023个字符.
.It Bq Er ENOENT
路径名中的某个前缀不存在. 
.It Bq Er ELOOP
解读路径名的时候遇到了太多的符号链接.
.It Bq Er EIO
创建目录或者分配i节点(inode)的时候发生了读写错误. 
.It Bq Er EROFS
该文件名可能位于只读的文件系统中。
.It Bq Er EISDIR
所给的路径名为空.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr connect 2 ,
.Xr getsockname 2 ,
.Xr listen 2 ,
.Xr socket 2
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn bind
系统调用始现于
.Bx 4.2 .
