.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)fork.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/fork.2,v 1.20.16.1 2011/09/23 00:51:37 kensmith Exp $
.\"
.Dd June 4, 1993
.Dt FORK 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm fork
.Nd 创建一个新的进程
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In unistd.h
.Ft pid_t
.Fn fork void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn fork
系统调用使一个新的进程得以创建. 新进程(子进程)确切的来说是调用者进
程(父进程)的复制, 以下特征除外:
.Bl -bullet -offset indent
.It
子进程拥有唯一的进程编号. 
.It
子进程拥有不同的父进程编号(即创建子进程的进程的编号). 
.It
子进程对父进程的描述符有它自己的一份复制. 这些描述符引用着相同
的对象, 因此举例来说, 文件对象中的文件指针将共享于父子进程之间, 
如果在子进程中对该描述符调用
.Xr lseek 2
也会影响到父进程今后调用
.Xr read 2
或
.Xr write 2
所产生的结果. 这种复制描述符的特性被 shell 
用来为新创建的进程建立标准输入输出，以及建立各种管道.
.It
子进程的资源利用率被设置为0; 参考
.Xr setrlimit 2 .
.It
所有的间隔定时器被复位; 参考
.Xr setitimer 2 .
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
如果创建成功
.Fn fork
在子进程中返回0, 在父进程中返回子进程的编号. 否则, 
在父进程中返回-1, 子进程不会被创建, 并且会设置全局变量
.Va errno
来指示错误. 
.Sh ERRORS
.Fn fork
系统调用遇到如下情形时会失败, 并且没有子进程被创建: 
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
超过了系统强制限制的能够同时运行的总进程数. 
这一限制由
.Xr sysctl 3
中的
.Dv KERN_MAXPROC
给出
(除超级用户以外，事实上比该数值还要小十倍).
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
创建者不是超级用户, 并且可能达到了系统强制限制的单个
用户所能同时运行的总进程数. 这一限制由
.Xr sysctl 3
中的
.Dv KERN_MAXPROCPERUID
给出.
.It Bq Er EAGAIN
创建者不是超级用户, 并且软性资源限制所对应的参数
.Fa resource
可能达到了
.Dv RLIMIT_NPROC
(参考
.Xr getrlimit 2 ) .
.It Bq Er ENOMEM
没有足够的交换空间分配给新进程了. 
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr execve 2 ,
.Xr rfork 2 ,
.Xr setitimer 2 ,
.Xr setrlimit 2 ,
.Xr vfork 2 ,
.Xr wait 2
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn fork
函数始现于
.At v6 .
