.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	From: @(#)listen.2	8.2 (Berkeley) 12/11/93
.\" $FreeBSD: src/lib/libc/sys/listen.2,v 1.30.16.1 2011/09/23 00:51:37 kensmith Exp $
.\"
.Dd August 29, 2005
.Dt LISTEN 2
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm listen
.Nd 监听对套接口的连接
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In sys/types.h
.In sys/socket.h
.Ft int
.Fn listen "int s" "int backlog"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
为了处理连接, 首先应该调用
.Xr socket 2
创建套接口, 再由
.Fn listen
将其转换为
可接受连接的监听套接口, 并指定连接队列的最大限制, 然后就能调用
.Xr accept 2
接受连接了. 
.Fn listen
系统调用只适用于类型为
.Dv SOCK_STREAM
或者
.Dv SOCK_SEQPACKET
的套节口.
.Pp
参数
.Fa backlog
定义了等待连接的队列最大能增长到多少. 而实际的最大队列长度为
.Fa backlog
值的1.5倍. 
对于一个已经处于监听状态的套节口来说, 可以再次调用
.Fn listen
来指定新的
.Fa backlog
参数, 从而改变其最大队列长度. 当队列已满时, 
如果还有新的连接进来, 客户端就会得到名为
.Er ECONNREFUSED
的错误提示, 或者对
于TCP来说, 该连接会被悄悄的丢弃. 
.Pp
当前监听套接口的队列长度可通过
.Xr netstat 1
命令来查询. 
.Pp
注意, 在
.Fx 4.5
引入syncache机制以前, 参数
.Fa backlog
同时决定了半开连
接队列的长度, 该队列存放着处于TCP三次握手过程中的TCP套接口. 而现在, 这类
尚未完全建立的连接则全部存放于syncache中, 因此队列长度不再影响它们了.
现在已经没有必要通过增大
.Fa backlog
值来帮助处理拒绝服务式攻击. 
.Pp
.Xr sysctl 3
中的
.Va kern.ipc.somaxconn
变量指定了
.Fa backlog
的硬性限制; 如果你指
定了一个大于
.Va kern.ipc.somaxconn
或者小于0的数,
.Fa backlog
会被自动地强制设为
.Va kern.ipc.somaxconn .
.Sh INTERACTION WITH ACCEPT FILTERS
When accept filtering is used on a socket, a second queue will
be used to hold sockets that have connected, but have not yet
met their accept filtering criteria.
Once the criteria has been
met, these sockets will be moved over into the completed connection
queue to be
.Xr accept 2 Ns ed .
If this secondary queue is full and a
new connection comes in, the oldest socket which has not yet met
its accept filter criteria will be terminated.
.Pp
This secondary queue, like the primary listen queue, is sized
according to the
.Fa backlog
argument.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Rv -std listen
.Sh ERRORS
遇到以下情形时 
.Fn listen
系统调用将会失败: 
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er EBADF
参数
.Fa s
不是一个有效的描述符.
.It Bq Er EINVAL
套接口已被连接, 或正处于连接过程中. 
.It Bq Er ENOTSOCK
参数
.Fa s
不是一个套接口. 
.It Bq Er EOPNOTSUPP
套接口不是
.Fn listen
所支持的类型.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr netstat 1 ,
.Xr accept 2 ,
.Xr connect 2 ,
.Xr socket 2 ,
.Xr sysctl 3 ,
.Xr sysctl 8 ,
.Xr accept_filter 9
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn listen
系统调用始现于
.Bx 4.2 .
允许在系统运行的时候配置最大
.Fa backlog ,
以及通过指定负的
.Fa backlog
来请求最大的可用值, 是在
.Fx 2.2
引入的.
